When the Internet was 1st designed. it was based on a controversial revolutionary idea packet switching.
Nowadays. it seems straightforward in the obvious way to build networks. but that wasn't always the case.
It's a very simple idea. But of course. as it is with simple ideas. there are many interesting implications that arise once you put it in a practice.
We'll spend an entire week of the course on packet switching and its implications. but in this video. we present the high level idea and its immediate benefits.
A packet is a self contained unit of data that carries information necessary for it to reach its destination.
Packet switching is the idea that we break our data up into discrete. self contain chunks of data.
Each chunk. call the packet. carries sufficient information that a network can deliver the packet all the way to its destination.
So let's say we have a source in a destination and a network of packets. which is A-B and C between them. when a receives a packet for the destination. it sends it along the link to be When B receives a packet for the destination. it sends along to see.
And when C receives a packet for the destination. it sends it to the destination directly. in the simplest form of packets. which. in each packet. is routed separately and independently.
E.g.. let's say there's another switch connected to B called D.
Immediately after sending a packet to see. B can send the next packet to D. or if the next packet were also to the destination. it would send two packets back to back to see.
Here's a simple definition of packet switching.
Means that independently. for each arriving packet. we pick its outgoing link.
If the link is free. we send it else we hold the packet for later.
Here's one example of how packet switching can work.
Each packet contains an explicit route specifying the ideas of each packet switch along the way. all the way to the destination.
We call this self routing. or source routing. because the source specifies the route.
When the source sends a packet. it puts in the packet A-B. it puts in the packet A-B and C. and then the destination.
It forwards the packet away. A. looks inside the header and sees the next top his B. so it forwards the packet to be B sends the next. sees the next top at C and C say it sees the last top is the destination.
Turns out. the Internet supports this source routing. but it's generally turned off because it raises big security issues.
One simple optimization. and what the Internet mostly does to day is to place a small amount of state in each switch. which tells at which next top to send packets to.
E.g.. a switch can have a table of destination addresses and the next top.
When it receives a packet. it looks up the desk. the address in the table. and sends the packet to the appropriate next top.
In this model. all the packets packet needs to carry is the destination address.
Using the address. each switch along the way. can make the right decision.
E.g.. in our network. here. a's table says the packets to destination should go to switch B switch.
Bees table says packets to destination should go to switch sea. and so on.
Packet switching has two really nice properties.
The 1st is that a switch can make individual. local decisions for each packet.
It doesn't need to keep extra state on the packets.
It's seen whether two packets go to the same destination. even if many packets are part of some larger transfer protocol.
The switch doesn't need to know or care this.
Which doesn't need to know that some packets are a skype call. others are a Webb requests. and others still are a firmer update for your computer.
It just for its packets. This greatly simplifies the switch.
The 2nd is that it lets us switch efficiently share a link between many parties.
E.g. consider a wireless router in a home with two people browsing the Internet in their laptops.
If one person is reading a page. then the other person can download a file at the full speed of the link.
If the 1st person starts loading a web page. the link can bere between two of them.
Once the download completes. the 1st person can use the full speed of the link.
These two points are really important. so go to some greater detail on both of them.
Of course. when we communicate. we don't usually send only one packet.
We send many. e.g. a voice cool consists of many consecutive packets. all part of the same communication.
We call this sequence of packets a flow.
More specifically. a flow is a collection of datagrams belonging to the same end to end communication. e.g.
a TCP connection. Let's 1st of all. look at how each packet is routed independently.
Because each packet is self contained. a switch doesn't need to know about groups of packets or flows.
Imagine if every switch had to keep track of every single web connection passing through it.
This would require a huge amount of state that would be really hard to manage.
Instead. treating each packet independently. means the switch can be much simpler to build. manage and troubleshoot.
The switch doesn't need to worry about adding or removing with per flow state.
Imagine if every time you wanted to load a webpage. you had to communicate with every switch along the path just to set up the state so that your request could get through.
This could make things much. much slower.
Instead. you can just send packets and the switches forward them appropriately.
The switches also don't need to store the state. because switches have to be really fast.
They need to store
the state in very fast memory. which would be expensive.
This let switch switches focus on doing just one thing. forwarding packets quickly and efficiently.
Finally. it means switches don't have to worry about failures.
Imagine. e.g. what happens when you start a web request. but then your tablet runs out of energy.
The switch is going to keep the puff low state for the request. but if one of the nodes that created the state fails. the switch needs to know how to clean up after otherwise you can have millions billions. or however. many of dead flows eating up your memory with packet switching a switch has no per end point state.
The tablet dies. The switch doesn't care.
It just means that it stops receiving packets from it.
In this way. the switch is more functionally independent of the computer sending traffic through it.
Think about how you typically use the Internet.
Your use is birthday. You lit a webpage. then read it. then load another one.
You download a few songs from itunes. then listen to them.
You stream a show from Netflix for 45 min then stop.
Data traffic is birthday rather than always sending and receiving data at a fixed rate. Usage jumps and drops. goes up and down over time. although a large scale changes in peaks and data traffic.
03:00 p.m. in the afternoon is typically high. as is 08:00 p.m.. while two in the morning is low.
On a smaller scale. is very bursty.
And these beasts bursts are often independent.
Let's say you and your friend are both browsing the web at a coffee shop.
When you load a new page. when your friend loads a new page. are mostly independent.
Sometimes you might overlap. but often they won't.
By treating all of your traffic is just packets. the wireless router can very effectively and chimp simply share its capacity between you.
If you're loading a page. when your friend is reading. the wireless router can give all of its capacity to your packets.
Similarly. if your friend is loading a page and your reading. the router can give all of its capacity in your friends packets.
The link doesn't need to go partially idle. because one of you is in using it. and if you're both using it. then the link can be shared between you.
This idea of taking a single resource and sharing it across multiple users in a probableistic or statistical way. it's called statistical multiplexing.
It's statistical and that each user receives a statistical share of the resource based on how others are using it.
E.g.. if your friend is reading. you can use all of the link.
If both of you are loading a page. you receive half of the link.
So there are two major benefits of packet switching.
1st. it makes the switch is simple. because they don't need to know about flows of packets.
And 2nd. its lets us sufficiently share the capacity among many flows sharing a link.
This simple building block was revolutionary at the time. but it's now accepted as the common way to build networks the.